# Sigil

![Deploy To Heroku](https://heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/cupcake/sigil/tree/master)

![Sigil's inverted Sigil](https://sigil.cupcake.io/Sigil?inverted=1)
![Sigil's Sigil](https://sigil.cupcake.io/Sigil)

Sigil is a deterministic [identicon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identicon)
generator.

Sigil creates a recognizable* identicon for each user that can be consistently
used across many sites when a user-uploaded avatar or Gravatar is unavailable or
unwanted. Sigils can be generated by any app or service using this application
or other implementation of the Sigil protocol. Sites can also use Sigil
[generation services](https://sigil.cupcake.io).

\* see _Privacy_ below

### Using Sigil

Sigil 0.1 creates identicons to represent _users_. A future release will have
additional algorithms and representations for non-persons. This will help anyone
who encounters Sigils to determine quickly if they represent users or other
content.

Sigil generates an identicon from a source string. In most cases (see _Privacy_)
the source string will be the user's email address. Query parameters can be used
to request an SVG or PNG of any size and switch the foreground and background
colors if desired. Reversing the background and foreground colors does not
change the information represented in a Sigil, so the reversed image can be used
if the style is more compatible with the host app.

You can generate Sigils internally using this app (or your own implementation of
the protocol below) or use a [Sigil service](https://sigil.cupcake.io).

The Sigil server takes an arbitrary string from the path and uses a MD5 of it to
generate the sigil. If you already have an MD5, you can hex encode it and the
server will not hash it again.

```text
https://sigil.cupcake.io/arbitrary
```

Simply replace `arbitrary` with data (for example a username) to get a Sigil.
You may optionally append `.png` or `.svg` to explicitly request a PNG or SVG
(PNG is the default). Two URL parameters are available:

- `w=240` sets the width in pixels (must be evenly divisible by 12). The default width is
  subject to change, so you should specify the width explicitly.
- `inverted=1` inverts the colors.


#### Privacy

There exists a possibility of significant user information disclosure if used
improperly. Email addresses should *not* be used as the source string (even if
hashed first) if the user's email address is not meant to be publicly available
through your site. It is possible to discover the email address from which the
Sigil was derived. This is a serious leak if the user's address is not exposed
elsewhere on the site. In these cases, use a *different* source string composed
of information that is available such as a username or user id.

### The Protocol

This repo contains a Sigil implementation written in Go, but Sigil can be
implemented in any language. A formal specification will be included with the
1.0 release.

Sigil uses the truncated MD5 hash of a string to create 5x5 identicons. The
first three columns and the color are generated from the truncated hash, the
last two columns are a reflection of the first two (1->5, 2->4).


### Roadmap

Sigil is still a work in progress. The color scheme is still being finalized and
this implementation may be optimized further. Additional background colors will
likely also be provided. We also intend to create a separate representation for
_things_ instead of _users_ i.e. favicons for Heroku apps. The suggested use
instructions (source string, background color, inverted colors, default width)
may also change before the 1.0 release.

### Try it

Download this repo or use [sigil.cupcake.io](https://sigil.cupcake.io) to
generate a Sigil.

Use Sigils in your own apps for users who don't have avatars or use your own
Sigil as an avatar in other apps.

[Ales Nesetril](http://www.alesnesetril.com/) designed the color scheme.

### Other implementations

- [Pydenticon](https://github.com/azaghal/pydenticon) (Python)
